Jan 28, 2015
Russian 'undercover agent' accused of being part of Kremlin spy ring in New York is a former Moscow tax inspector
dailymail.co.uk/news/article-2930249/License-BILL-Russian-undercover-agent-accused-Kremlin-spy-ring-New-York-former-Moscow-tax-inspector.html

The alleged Russian spy under arrest in New York is a former Moscow tax office employee, it was revealed today.
Details of his past - he was born in a remote village notorious for a brutal gangland massacre - came as Russian politicians and ex-spies demanded US agents be expelled from Russia.
Evgeny Buryakov, 39, rose quickly to switch to VneshEconomBank and was posted to work in South Africa as head of the institution's representative office, before being switched to the US.
There was no reply at his flat in a block - pictured for the first time - on a prestigious Moscow avenue.
Nor was there any sign of another alleged spy, Igor Sporyshev, 40, at his listed address in the Russian capital.
Some of Buryakov's relatives still live in the village of Kuschevskaya village in Krasnodar region, which is more notorious in Russia for the slaying of 12 members of one family killed by local gangsters .
Buryakov arrived in Moscow from this backwoods village in Krasnodar region in 1999, first to work in tax office number 40, before joining the major Russian bank.
It is unclear how long US federal prosecutors believe he has been a spy.
He has a wife Marina, 35, and two children born in 2005 and 2008.
Veteran KGB spy Mikhail Lyubimov - expelled from Britain in the Cold War - criticised the US over Buryakov's detention and the charging of two other Russian diplomats who were covered by diplomatic immunity.
'Usually in crisis situations which we are having now with the USA, spy stories are always good for those who are keen to heat up the conflict and spoil relations.
'I do not know the roots but this may be a provocation.'
He forecast US diplomats would be expelled from Russia 'and that will be it'.
He said: 'There is no drama. It is a much smaller drama than a conflict in Ukraine.'
Another former spy Yury Kobaladze claimed the US was making more of a show out of the alleged espionage case than when glamorous Anna Chapman was expelled from the US five years ago.
'All was done in a quiet way and there was no damage to relations,' he said.
'Now it has been done very loudly. All was made public. For sure, there will be some steps from our side.'
He stated: 'Russian intelligence is not doing anything worse than the Americans are doing in Russia.
'I have always supported the idea that all conflicts in secret services - inevitable failures and arrests - should not lead to the complications in the relations between states.
'Unfortunately, we are in the period now when all is red hot.
'It is just a new drop which would not help the search for a compromise.'
Senior politician Sergei Mironov urged the Kremlin to respond with 'an eye for an eye'.
He claimed: 'Our secret services have notes about certain members of diplomatic service who are at odds with the law.'
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov and US Ambassador to Russia John Tefft met on Wednesday for the second time since the scandal broke.
'The discussion of several issues of the bilateral agenda was continued,' said the Russian foreign ministry.
The three were trying to find ways to cause an economic meltdown, according to court documents.
The men allegedly wanted to 'destabilize' high frequency trading systems, which were blamed for the Wall St 'Flash Crash' of 2010.
The men also moaned to each other that being a modern day spy was nothing like James Bond films, and that they longed for a more glamorous lifestyle, the criminal complaint reveals.
The FBI began investigating the men in 2010 after ten Russian spies living in the US were arrested, including red-haired femme fatale Anna Chapman.
When Buryakov was arrested and appeared before a federal judge prosecutors said: 'His life here is a deception.'
During the Flash Crash the Dow Jones lost 1,000 points within minutes only to bounce back right away, sparking fears that automated or 'robot' trading could be vulnerable to hackers or terrorists.
All three men are accused of trying to gather information on such high frequency trading and Exchange Traded Funds (ETTs), or bundles of shares, by recruiting women who worked in finance and others linked to a major university in the city.
They also tried to get information on US sanctions against Russia and alternative energy sources being developed in America.
In a conversation secretly taped by the FBI in May 2013, Sporyshev asked Buryakov about what questions he can give to other agents working for an unnamed Russian media organisation for intelligence-gathering.
Buryakov replied that they can ask about ETT and 'how they are used, the mechanisms of use for destabilisation of the markets'.
He says: 'Then you ask them what they think about limiting the use of trading robots... and about the potential interest of the participants of the exchange to the products tied to the Russian Federation.'
According to the criminal complaint, the three spies spoke to each other in code to set up their meetings and claimed they had an umbrella or a ticket for the others.
In person Buryakov would pass Sporyshev a bag, a magazine or a piece of paper with information hidden inside it.
They met in the open air so 'the risk of effective surveillance was reduced relative to an indoor location'.
In a separate conversation, in April 2013, Podobnyy fantasized about being James Bond, saying: 'The fact that I'm sitting with a cookie right now at the chief enemy spot.
'F***! Not one point what I thought then...not even close. (unintelligible) movies about James Bond.
'Of course, I wouldn't fly helicopters. But, pretend to be someone else at a minimum.'
Sporyshev replied: 'I also thought that at least I would go abroad with a different passport.'
Buryakov was denied bail because he was a flight risk.
He is accused of acting as an undeclared foreign spy among other offences and faces 15 years in jail if convicted.
Sporyshev and Podobnyy are charged with aiding him in his activities.
If he is a spy, it is hardly Buryakov's most dangerous association. He is a native of a village where one of Russia's most notorious mafia murders took place in 2010.
Godfather Sergei Tsapok told in a chilling courtroom boast in 2013 how he and his mobsters wiped out a dozen people, including four children aged from nine months to 14, in a murder spree which stunned the country.
Farmer Serever Ametov, 51, had invited family and friends for a party in the village of Kushchevskaya - where Buryakov was born and raised - to celebrate Russia's National Unity Day in November 2010 where they were slaughtered by the ruthless Tsapok and his gang.
After he was sentenced to life in prison, Tsapok calmly told the court that Ametov's business was 'going well' and he was 'in my way'.
'He was ruining my authority. So I wanted to make him suffer himself, and see how his family is suffering,' he said.
'We dragged him into the main room - he was still breathing - and making sure that he saw everything, we killed everyone else in front of his eyes.
'Then we checked the clock and were really surprised - it only took us ten minutes.'
Tsapok's mother Nadezhda was jailed last year for six and a half years for fraud.
The village is in the same region where the Russian Winter Olympics were held last year. 
